The morning had dawned clear and cold, with a crispness that hinted at the end of summer.
They set forth at daybreak to see a man beheaded, twenty in all, and Bran rode among them, nervous with excitement.
This was the first time he had been deemed old enough to go with his lord father and his brothers to see the kings justice done.
It was the ninth year of summer, and the seventh of Brans life.
The man had been taken outside a small holdfast in the hills.
Robb thought he was a wildling, his sword sworn to Mance Rayder, the King-beyond-the-Wall.
It made Brans skin prickle to think of it.
He remembered the hearth tales Old Nan told them.
The wildlings were cruel men, she said, slavers and slayers and thieves.
They consorted with giants and ghouls, stole girl children in the dead of night, and drank blood from polished horns.
And their women lay with the Others in the Long Night to sire terrible half-human children.
But the man they found bound hand and foot to the holdfast wall awaiting the kings justice was old and scrawny, not much taller than Robb.
He had lost both ears and a finger to frostbite, and he dressed all in black, the same as a brother of the Nights Watch, except that his furs were ragged and greasy.
The breath of man and horse mingled, steaming, in the cold morning air as his lord father had the man cut down from the wall and dragged before them.
Robb and Jon sat tall and still on their horses, with Bran between them on his pony, trying to seem older than seven, trying to pretend that hed seen all this before.
A faint wind blew through the holdfast gate.
Over their heads flapped the banner of the Starks of Winterfell: a grey direwolf racing across an ice-white field.
Brans father sat solemnly on his horse, long brown hair stirring in the wind.
His closely trimmed beard was shot with white, making him look older than his thirty-five years.
He had a grim cast to his grey eyes this day, and he seemed not at all the man who would sit before the fire in the evening and talk softly of the age of heroes and the children of the forest.
He had taken off Fathers face, Bran thought, and donned the face of Lord Stark of Winterfell.
There were questions asked and answers given there in the chill of morning, but afterward Bran could not recall much of what had been said.
Finally his lord father gave a command, and two of his guardsmen dragged the ragged man to the ironwood stump in the center of the square.
They forced his head down onto the hard black wood.
Lord Eddard Stark dismounted and his ward Theon Greyjoy brought forth the sword.
Ice, that sword was called.
It was as wide across as a mans hand, and taller even than Robb.
The blade was Valyrian steel, spell-forged and dark as smoke.
Nothing held an edge like Valyrian steel.
His father peeled off his gloves and handed them to Jory Cassel, the captain of his household guard.